# Exercises

Together with your team, you'll perform threat modeling for a hypothetical information system of your design, following OWASP guidelines ([link](https://owasp.org/www-community/Threat_Modeling_Process)).

## Exercise 1: System Modeling

1. Scope your work: fill basic information about the application (design it to be complex enough to make exercise 2 possible).

    - **Application Name**: The name of the application examined.
    - **Application Version**: The version of the application examined.
    - **Description**: A high level description of the application.
    - **Document Owner**: The owner of the threat modeling document.
    - **Participants**: The participants involved in the threat modeling process for this application.
    - **Reviewer**: The reviewer(s) of the threat model.

1. Create a data flow diagram using Threat Dragon (deployed in the previous step). Export to JSON and PNG.

## Exercise 2: Threat Identification

1. Identify at least two potential threats against the application from each STRIDE category. Provide detailed description for each.

1. Draw an attack tree (rooted at a single attacker final goal) based on the identified threats. You may use a service like [deciduous.app](https://deciduous.app), [PlantUML](https://editor.plantuml.com/uml/RLBDRjim3BxhAOXSjWNeAmpjWcsN0XkM0ZlB4kq8aSY0ehlkoNRVazMI8y4DYXpYxuVVPrEwpsf5vnHDFWUwMB494XExat12K9bnetWSxHpr2L_q8OQ94fA2Gr8KOpx0BsO5Oe_6JaNP_RWWmT6Ek0EROM8RY-qu3_KvDzlFuCxmoEvSRPS5nGKqzH6j41mu3LprMB0hi3aEiyBRAZShBqHUi36b2-xkFlVapcopEhUTRGtV0dduBK4LjwyoBlIVbJKzYalALkeftr7NOHY54pnPcL3NrQ3MKQtKJTQDsjA-lYYB1gQQW0rr-Hcp5xwiwXKqyOk40Qiob2Vpjg6Mzi3tn9RtdhOcca2ACbg7iBFaQzVoRzfajHQY7tF8PRdAS61wHicsVrkiabjeRkvrTt2qV_FcFBIoUI6lzuDywTa6DExMMoxcmv1Lh2kzy95OOU904oX3OeyHz6Jrat6HPm-x_Vx_l_BRxw_Vndf2CNrjfQIpzqX-Jl4L) or [draw.io](https://draw.io)

1. Calculate CVSS Score ([calculator](https://www.first.org/cvss/calculator/3-0)) for each identified threat, use the score to rank and prioritize threats.

## Exercise 3: Countermeasures & Review

1. Agree on countermeasures for each identified threat: *mitigate, eliminate, transfer, or accept*.
    - Include brief justification for each chosen countermeasure.
    - When choosing to *mitigate* a threat, actionable mitigation steps that will be taken during development should be clearly stated.
2. Use the questions checklist explained earlier to review the final work. Include relevant reviewer comments as you see fit.
